OSDOCS#4604: Document troubleshooting Network Observability (#53713)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/troubleshooting-network-observability-network-flow.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/network_observability/troubleshooting-network-observability.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configure-network-traffic-console_{context}"]

> = Configuring network flow for the network interfaces

Reviewer: This also lacks context. The text below does not explain how to configure network interfaces but explaining why two concrete interfaces (`br-int` and `br-ex`) don't show flows.

I'd change the title by:
```
= Not seeing flows from neither the `br-int` nor `br-ex` interfaces
```
Then explainin the cause:

> [br-ex and br-int are virtual bridge devices](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openstack_platform/16.0/html/networking_guide/bridge-mappings), so they operate at OSI Layer 2 (e.g. Ethernet level). The eBPF agent works at Layers 3 and 4 (IP and TCP level), so it is expected that traffic passing through br-int and br-ex is captured by the agent when it is processed by other interfaces (e.g. physical host or virtual pod interfaces).
>
> This means that, if you restrict the agent interfaces (using the interfaces or excludeInterfaces properties) to attach only to br-int and/or br-ex, you won't be able to see any flow.

Author: Addressed

> Manually remove the network interfaces from the `flowcollector` Custom Resource (CR) where you don't see network flows from the network interfaces `br-int` or `br-ex`.

Reviewer: I'd say:
> Manually remove the part in the `interfaces` or `excludeInterfaces` that restricts the interfaces to `br-int` and `br-ex`

Author: Addressed

.Procedure

. Remove the specified network interfaces by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit -n netobserv flowcollector.yaml -o yaml
----
+
.Example output
----
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1alpha1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:
      interfaces: [ 'br-int', 'br-ex' ] <1>
----

> <1> Specifies the network interfaces.

Reviewer: I'd say:

> In the above example, you should remove the `interfaces: [ 'br-int', 'br-ex' ]` so you allow the Agent to fetch information from all the interfaces. Or put an actual Layer-3 interface (e.g. `eth0`)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/network_observability/troubleshooting-network-observability.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="configure-network-traffic-interfaces_{context}"]
= Failing to see network flows from both `br-int` and `br-ex` interfaces

> `br-ex` and `br-int` are virtual bridge devices operated at OSI Layer 2. The eBPF agent works at Layers 3 and 4 (IP and TCP level). You can expect that the eBPF agent captures the network traffic passing through `br-ex` and `br-int`, when the network traffic is processed by other interfaces such as physical host or virtual pod interfaces. If you restrict the eBPF agent network interfaces to attach only to `br-ex` and `br-int`, you do not see any network flow.

Reviewer 2: I'm not finding any guidance on whether it is OSI Layer or OSI layer. But I'd probably not capitalize _layer_.

Author: Addressed

> `br-ex` and `br-int` are virtual bridge devices operated at OSI Layer 2. The eBPF agent works at Layers 3 and 4 (IP and TCP level). You can expect that the eBPF agent captures the network traffic passing through `br-ex` and `br-int`, when the network traffic is processed by other interfaces such as physical host or virtual pod interfaces. If you restrict the eBPF agent network interfaces to attach only to `br-ex` and `br-int`, you do not see any network flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`br-ex` and `br-int` are virtual bridge devices operated at OSI layer 2. The eBPF agent works at the IP and TCP levels, layers 3 and 4 respectively. You can expect that the eBPF agent captures the network traffic passing through `br-ex` and `br-int`, when the network traffic is processed by other interfaces such as physical host or virtual pod interfaces. If you restrict the eBPF agent network interfaces to attach only to `br-ex` and `br-int`, you do not see any network flow.
```

Author: Addressed
